# 2021

## Supervised Statistical learning

training a model with a labeled dataset. You have input with their correct output, train a model to make prediction.

### problems that can be tackled with supervised learning

1. *Classification*:

    predicting an output based on the class it falls on.
    example: spam filtering, image recognition.

2. *Regression*:

    predicting continuous output based on input variables
    example: house price prediction, stock price forecasting

## Unsupervised Statistical learning

training a model with unknown output of a dataset. goal to find a pattern, similarities without any guidance.

### problems that can be tackled with unsupervised learning

1. *Clustering*:

    grouping data based on their characteristics and features.
    example: customer segmentation

2. *Dimensionality reduction*:

    reducing the number of input to the ones with essential information.
    example: image compression techniques,feature selection

3. *Anomaly Detection*:

    identify unusual patterns or data that doesnt conform to their expected behavior.
    example: network intrusion decision, fraud detection.

## data quality

Ensuring data used to build a model is clean, accurate and relevant.

### components of data quality

* accuracy: data should be correct.
* completeness: no missing value, if there is not affect the output.
* relevant: data should be relevant to the problem being solved.

## Feature Selction

selcting the most relevant features from large set of features in a dataset.
